# BigSortChallange
Sort a large file ~100gb demo app

## How to start  
### 1. File generation utility
- run `dotnet run --project .\src\FileGenerationUtil\FileGenerationUtil.csproj -- init` to prepare util.
- run `dotnet run --project .\src\FileGenerationUtil\FileGenerationUtil.csproj -- --size 10737418240` to generate 10Gb file or replace it whith desired file size.
 
### 2. Sortter
- run `dotnet run --project .\src\Sorter\Sorter.csproj -- --input <path to file generated on previous step>`

## File generation Utility 
Use -h option to get help 

To generate file I use source file, default one can be generated by run init command, or directly passed with the --input option.
The source file controlls which Strings to use for a file generation, thus we can have same string in the output file.  

## Sorter
Use -h option to get help

Sorter uses default approach, split by chunks, sort chungs, and merge sort chunks. It is needed because file size doesn't allow direct inmemory sorting approach.

## Assumptions and developer notes

Number constraint - default int

String constraint - it is generated based on --source file, however, the default file generated with strings length from 15 to 50 characters.

Taking these into an account we are getting ~ 670 000 000 lines for a 100GB file.
It is a quite time consuming even for the simple read-write operation.
I didn't test it for 100Gb, but I did for 10Gb and full sycle took me ~13min.

I coulde've taken bigger string length to reduce the number of lines, but I didn't. 
I don't think it is fare solution, but I can't generate better one, at least whithout further investigations on the topic.

